<html><head></head><body>## Overview

XML is the primary format that {{ site.title }} uses to manipulate data within a flow. Therefore, it is useful to convert {{ page.file_format }} files into XML as a staging step for further processing in the flow, or to convert XML to a {{ page.file_format }} file after the XML has been manipulated. Both of these operations can be accomplished with the {{ page.file_format }} connector.

For details on converting {{ page.file_format }} into XML, see the [Converting {{ page.file_format }} to XML](#converting-{{ page.file_format_lowercase }}-to-xml) section. For details on converting XML into {{ page.file_format }}, see the [Converting XML to {{ page.file_format }}](#converting-xml-to-{{ page.file_format_lowercase }}) section.

## Connector Configuration

This section contains all of the configurable connector properties.

### Settings Tab 

#### Configuration

_Settings related to the connector Id and description._

{:.table}
{% capture my_include %}
{% include common_settings_name_description.md %}  
{% endcapture %}{{ my_include | markdownify }} 

#### Connector Settings

_Settings related to the core operation of the connector._

{:.table}
{% capture my_include %}
* **Column headers present** Whether the {{ page.file_format }} file contains a row of headers providing names or context to the values in the file.
* **Record Name** The name of elements representing a row in the {{ page.file_format }} file when converting to XML. You can use the following macros: <br> %ConnectorID%, %FilenameNoExt%, %RegexFilename:%, and %Header:%. <br> See [Converting {{ page.file_format }} to XML](#converting-{{ page.file_format_lowercase }}-to-xml) for more details.
{% endcapture %}{{ my_include | markdownify }}  

#### Other Settings

_Settings not included in the previous categories._

{:.table}
{% capture my_include %}
{% include common_settings_localfilescheme.md %}
{% include common_settings_processingdelay.md %}
* **Line Separator** The character sequence to use to denote line endings. By default, this is determined by the system, but you can use this setting to override the system behavior. Use `CR` or `\r` to denote carriage return, and `LF` or `\n` to denote line feed.
{% endcapture %}
{{ my_include | markdownify }}

### Automation Tab

#### Automation Settings

_Settings related to the automatic processing of files by the connector._

{:.table}
* **Send** Whether messages arriving at the connector are automatically processed.

#### Performance

{% capture my_include %}{% include common_settings_performance.md %}{% endcapture %}
{{ my_include | markdownify }} 

### Advanced Tab

#### Message

{:.table}
{% capture my_include %}
{% include common_save_to_sent_folder.md %} 
{% include common_settings_sentfolderscheme.md %}{% endcapture %}
{{ my_include | markdownify }}  

#### Logging

{:.table}
{% capture my_include %}
* **Log Level** The verbosity of logs generated by the connector. When you request support, set this to **Debug**.
{% include common_settings_logsubfolderscheme.md %}
* **Log Messages** Check this to have the log entry for a processed file include a copy of the file itself. If you disable this, you might not be able to download a copy of the file from the **Input** or **Output** tabs.
{% endcapture %} 

{{ my_include | markdownify }}  

#### Other Settings

{:.table}
{% capture my_include %}
{% include common_settings_processingdelay.md %}{% endcapture %} {{ my_include | markdownify }}

{% capture my_include %}{% include common_settings_misc_connector.md %}{% endcapture %}
{{ my_include | markdownify }} 

{% capture my_include %}{% include common_settings_alerts_slas_new.md %}{% endcapture %}
{{ my_include | markdownify }} 

## Converting {{ page.file_format }} to XML

When a {{ page.file_format }} file is transformed into XML, the resulting XML has the following structure:

```xml
<items>
  <record>
    <field_0></field_0>
    <field_1></field_1>
    <field_2></field_2>
  </record>
</items> 
```

Each row (record) in the original file becomes a child of the root element <var>Items</var>. The name of all record elements is determined by the **Record Name** option set in [Connector Settings](./CSV.html#connector-settings). Each record element then has child elements corresponding to the values in each row of the input file.

Some {{ page.file_format }} files include a line of header information that provides context to the values in the file. When the **First line is header information** setting is enabled, this header line is parsed, and the parsed headers are used as the element names for the value elements (the children of the record elements). Otherwise, the value elements are given generic names such as <var>field_0</var>, <var>field_1</var>, and so on.

## Converting XML to {{ page.file_format }}

To convert XML to a {{ page.file_format }} file, the input XML must have a &apos;flat&apos; structure. This means that, disregarding the <var>Items</var> root element, the depth of the XML structure is two. For example:

```xml
<items>
  <film>
    <title>Citizen Kane</title>
    <year>1941</year>
    <runtime>119</runtime>
  </film>
  <film>
    <title>Sharknado</title>
    <year>2013</year>
    <runtime>86</runtime>
  </film>
</items>
```

The XML is interpreted as follows: 
* Children of the root element are treated as records (rows) in the resulting file
* Children of each record element are treated as the values in each row 

If the **First line is header information** option is enabled, a header row is inserted into the resulting {{ page.file_format }} file with the names of each value element to provide context to the values. In the  example above, this header row would consist of <var>title</var>, <var>year</var>, and <var>runtime</var>.

{% include common_csv_print_view.md custom_image=include.print_preview_image %}   

## {{ page.file_format }} Transformation: Using the XML Map Connector

Many data transformation flows use the {{ page.file_format }} connector in conjunction with the [XML Map Connector](./xml-map.html).

Often, data enters an {{ site.titleshort }} flow in {{ page.file_format }} format and should exit the flow in some other format (for example, a database insert, an EDI file, or an insert into a CRM or ERP data source), or vice versa. {{ site.titleshort }} uses a single streamlined approach to these data transformation requirements: 

* Model the input format as XML
* Model the output format as XML
* Use the XML Map connector to map between the input XML and the output XML

Therefore, the {{ page.file_format }} connector is commonly adjacent to an XML Map connector in the flow:  

* When {{ page.file_format }} files are the _input_ to the flow, the {{ page.file_format }} connector converts a {{ page.file_format }} file to XML and then passes that XML off to the XML Map connector to be transformed
* When {{ page.file_format }} files are the _output_ from the flow, the {{ page.file_format }} connector receives XML from the XML Map connector and converts it into a {{ page.file_format }} file

The {{ page.file_format }} connector includes an [Upload Test File](./CSV.html#upload-test-file) feature to simplify the process of mapping the XML that represents a {{ page.file_format }} file.

### Upload Test File

An XML Map connector requires a sample XML structure for both the mapping input/source and the mapping output/destination. The **Upload Test File** feature makes it easy to use the {{ page.file_format }} connector to generate a Source or Destination XML template. Follow these steps to generate an XML representation of an input file:

1. In the **Input** tab of the connector, click the **More** dropdown and click **Upload Test File**.
2. Navigate to a file on disk that you want to model as XML, select it, and click **OK**.
3. Connect a {{ page.file_format }} connector to an XML Map connector in the flow. This connection can go in either direction: inbound to the XML Map connector, or outbound from the XML Map connector.

The XML Map connector automatically detects the structure of the test file. Based on where you placed the {{ page.file_format }} connector, the file appears in the **Source File** or **Destination File** drop-down menu of the XML Map connector.

**Note**: The structure of this test file should be representative of future files. In other words, all of the {{ page.file_format }} files processed by the {{ page.file_format }} connector (and then the XML Map connector) should have the same columns as your test file. You might need to set up multiple {{ page.file_format }} connectors and multiple XML Map connectors to handle distinct {{ page.file_format }} structures.

## Macros

{% capture my_include %}{% include common_macros.md %} 
{% endcapture %}
{{ my_include | markdownify }}</body></html>